PROJECT EXAMPLES
1.	An academic Project I have recently participated in was the software development of a small 2D game in Java. The game was a skill based high input matching game that was inspired by Guitar Hero.

My role for this project was main technical developer. More specifically I developed the graphics, UI and Frontend aspects of the project. The graphics systems I developed included: game board window, graphics for falling musical notes and the main menu. To create the graphics, I used the JavaFx library.
Alongside a teammate, I developed the communication layer between the frontend and backend and helped in the backend development by working on aspects such as the development of a class that generates the list of musical notes for a song from an input text file. Also aided in the completion of the musical note class, a team member was having issues making a note appear on the game board, so I fixed the problem with them and explained to them the source of the issue. Furthermore, the JUnit test files for these two backend classes were written by me with the purpose of assuring the methods of the classes were working as expected.

2.	Another academic project I have participated in was the software implementation of a Course Management System using Java.

My main role for this project was frontend design and development. I worked on the design and implementation of the application windows to make them user friendly. I designed the way we navigated through different pages and windows of the application.  To facilitate user experience, I implemented a simple search parser. The parser would interpret an input for a user, perhaps inquire more information about a class, and if the class was in our database then the result would show the user how to get the information page of the class. Otherwise, it would tell the user the class was not found in our database.

I was also responsible for assuring that all the documentation for the iterations of the project were reported in time to our supervisor and that every group member made their appropriate contributions. I had to contact group members if the deadline was approaching and they hadn't contributed their part to the document, so that they could write their part in time before I had to report it to our supervisor. My approach was to ask them if they needed assistance with their part and complete in a timely manner.

INSPIRATION
1.	At the UCalgary Techfest I came across a project from Finger Food Advanced Technology Group that piqued my interest. The project they talked to me about was called EmbodyRelax. link: https://www.fingerfoodatg.com/lululemon-athletica/ They use Virtual Reality to help people reach a new level of mindfulness. For me personally, an important reason of why I chose computer science was because virtual reality and augmented reality technologies were new and were on the rise. I saw myself becoming a developer of these technologies as the number of users grows and technologies expanded. I was inspired by their unique ability to use science to bring a virtual space into a physical/mental space. For example, in the video, they mention how the heart rate monitors are used to enhance the virtual space when an individual becomes more relaxed. As a person who values mindset and spirituality I was engrossed by this technology that brought together my values with virtual reality.

2.	I am also inspired by the rapid growth of e-commerce and how a well-developed web and mobile applications can help businesses increase their revenue. For example, Critical Mass' eCommerce Personalization for Blizzard Entertainment. I liked how the design and development of a new immersive store helped create more personalized experiences for the users. It had great success with a 57% increase in revenue, 7.5% increase in conversion and 56% increase in overall session duration (https://www.criticalmass.com/work/detail/blizzard). Seeing results like this where both the business and customers benefit from such work has encouraged me to work on the development of applications that serve as beneficial to the business as well as its customers. I also want to work on the design of a personalized application such as this one.

What I find interesting about the world of e-commerce now is the ability for businesses to create genuine connections between their brand and their end users without a middleman. At the beginning, I used to think that e-commerce was just going to be a place where customers can just buy products and services over the internet. With the internet, e-commerce has evolved as a way for end users to have direct access to the brands of businesses and open the opportunity for them to do the same without much overheard. Through the development of new technology and user experience, users can interact with services of the brand and create that genuine connection through a positive experience with service. Much like the innovated Blizzard Gear Store. Creating a more personalized experience for the customers lead to the increase of overall session duration. Allowing fans to have a more interactive time with the store caused them to have that feeling of being a part of the Blizzard brand which led to the increase in revenue and conversion. This is what I strive for and motivated by, to create a connection between a brand and consumers by giving the end users fast direct access to the services of the company.

FOCUS

As seen by my previous project experiences, most of my work involves frontend development. If I were given the time and resources to learn anything during my internship, I would choose to focus my efforts learning backend development in a professional environment with the goal of becoming a well-rounded developer. For example, I would like to work with SQL to manage data with a relational database management system for a professional application. Using libraries such as socket IO to enable real time communication between a client and a server. By becoming a well-rounded developer, I would be able to get a broader picture of what is needed from an architectural system to meet the requirements of the end user. 

The way I would spend my time learning backend development for a professional application would be to spend some time (about an hour) learning these new technologies and libraries by reading their documentation and applying what I learned in a practical application. I would seek advice from people who have used these technologies to see how they are used in real world examples and seek involvement in areas where I can expand my knowledge. My hope is to find an area in the project where can provide my own ideas to expand or improve on existent systems in order to improve end user experience and leave my mark in the project.

